<!--
author: checkking
date: 2017-03-21
title: protobuffer更新Message
tags: protobuffer
category: protobuffer
status: publish
summary: Google Protobuffer笔记
-->
If an existing message type no longer meets all your needs – for example, you'd like the message format to have an extra field – but you'd still like to use code created with the old format, don't worry! It's very simple to update message types without breaking any of your existing code. Just remember the following rules: 
- Don't change the numeric tags for any existing fields.
- Any new fields that you add should be optional or repeated. This means that any messages serialized by code using your "old" message format can be parsed by your new generated code, as they won't be missing any required elements. You should set up sensible default values for these elements so that new code can properly interact with messages generated by old code. Similarly, messages created by your new code can be parsed by your old code: old binaries simply ignore the new
field when parsing. However, the unknown fields are not discarded, and if the message is later serialized, the unknown fields are serialized along with it – so if the message is passed on to new code, the new fields are still available. 
- Non-required fields can be removed, as long as the tag number is not used again in your updated message type. You may want to rename the field instead, perhaps adding the prefix "OBSOLETE_", or make the tag reserved, so that future users of your .proto can't accidentally reuse the number. 
- A non-required field can be converted to an extension and vice versa, as long as the type and number stay the same. 
- int32, uint32, int64, uint64, and bool are all compatible – this means you can change a field from one of these types to another without breaking forwards- or backwards-compatibility. If a number is parsed from the wire which doesn't fit in the corresponding type, you will get the same effect as if you had cast the number to that type in C++ (e.g. if a 64-bit number is read as an int32, it will be truncated to 32 bits). 
- sint32 and sint64 are compatible with each other but are not compatible with the other integer types.
- string and bytes are compatible as long as the bytes are valid UTF-8. 
- Embedded messages are compatible with bytes if the bytes contain an encoded version of the message. 
- fixed32 is compatible with sfixed32, and fixed64 with sfixed64. 
- optional is compatible with repeated. Given serialized data of a repeated field as input, clients that expect this field to be optional will take the last input value if it's a primitive type field or merge all input elements if it's a message type field. 
- Changing a default value is generally OK, as long as you remember that default values are never sent over the wire. Thus, if a program receives a message in which a particular field isn't set, the program will see the default value as it was defined in that program's version of the protocol. It will NOT see the default value that was defined in the sender's code.
- enum is compatible with int32, uint32, int64, and uint64 in terms of wire format (note that values will be truncated if they don't fit), but be aware that client code may treat them differently when the message is deserialized. Notably, unrecognized enum values are discarded when the message is deserialized, which makes the field's has.. accessor return false and its getter return the first value listed in the enum definition, or the default value if one is specified. In the
  case of repeated enum fields, any unrecognized values are stripped out of the list. However, an integer field will always preserve its value. Because of this, you need to be very careful when upgrading an integer to an enum in terms of receiving out of bounds enum values on the wire. 
- In the current Java and C++ implementations, when unrecognized enum values are stripped out, they are stored along with other unknown fields. Note that this can result in strange behavior if this data is serialized and then reparsed by a client that recognizes these values. In the case of optional fields, even if a new value was written after the original message was deserialized, the old value will be still read by clients that recognize it. In the case of
  repeated fields, the old values will appear after any recognized and newly-added values, which means that order will not be preserved. 
